19/04/2025

Setting:
The setting is something similar to 1870's/Victorian era (without the discrimination) with a 'haunted' feel,
as if there is always something dangerous right around the corner.

The main country or region is one that until recently has seen somewhat of a smaller version of the
industrial revolution. Recently though it seems to have fallen under a shadow, with cases of disappearances on
the rise fueling paranoia, overcast weather persisting almost indefinitely, and even peculiar sightings of
ghastly figures vanishing into the night.

Civilization in this region is made up of a mix of small rural/farming towns and moderately sized fortresses-
turned-towns that were built up and walled in as a part of some long past war. There is one large city, but
as of late there has been no communication or trade with it... In actuality, it is suffering the brunt of these 
strange goings on, causing widespread chaos and even pushing the city leadership to declare a quarantine until
the city guard can figure out (and put and end to) the source of these problems, or at least get things under
some semblance of control.

Who are the bad guys?

Cultists, worshipping some eldritch/forgotten god?
 - Zombies?

Faction that mixes science (medical, biological) with poorly understood magics (even 'regular' magic is almost
unknown or else considered superstition at best) for their own purposes (research/understanding, power, revenge?)
 - Abominations (abducted people that are experimented on and released for 'observation'
 - Mutated animals?


General themes:
Item scarcity - in this setting, items should be vary scarce similar to video games like Resident Evil.
For example, if the party were to go to the local gun shop, they would find that due to recent events, the local
constabulary/militia/police force has bought up almost all of their stock, and only have a box or two of revolver
cartridges for sale (12 cartridges per box as standard), along with a single box of rifle cartridges or shotgun
shells, and if they are lucky, a single (common or uncommon) weapon available for purchase. The general store may
only have a reasonable stock of basic rations and only a handful of tools or luxury goods available (at a slightly/
moderately inflated price).

As far as currency goes, each coin should have consistent value so as to avoid increasingly large sums
becoming normal like in most games.

10 copper is enough to buy a very basic meal at an inn (consisting of bread and soup),
15 copper for a pint of common ale, 25-40 copper for a room for the night (25 for a bed in the common room, 40 for
a private room). A box of pistol cartridges might cost 36-40 copper (12 cartridges per box), a box of rifle cartridges
or shotgun shells might cost 50-60 copper (10 cartridges/shells per box).

Rifle = 20-25 silver
Revolver = 20-25 silver

Straw Hat = 0.5-1 silver
Felt Hat = 2-8 silver
Coat/Jacket = 3-8 silver
Shirts = 1.5 silver
Trousers/Skirt = 3-8 silver
Underwear = 2-5 silver
Boots = 3-5 silver
Shoes = 1.5-3.5 silver

Blanket = 1.5-5 silver

Horse = 25-100 silver
Mule = 50 silver

Full set of homestead tools = 7.5 silver



These costs may increase for more exotic/rare goods & services.

100 copper = 1 silver
100 silver = 1 gold
(Very roughly going off of cent/dollar values in America in the 1870's, where 1 copper is equivalent to 1 cent, and
1 silver is equivalent to 1 dollar)



Attributes:
?Physical:
?Strength, Dexterity, Constitution, ?

?Mental:
?Intelligence, Intuition, Charisma, Reflexes, Reason, ?

?Ethereal:
?Faith, Connection, Font, Source?


Strength

Agility

Intelligence

Intuition





Classes (Subclasses):

Soldier (Scout, Tactician, Vanguard)

Agent (Outlaw, Racketeer, Spy)

Scientist (Archaeologist, Doctor, Engineer)

Afflicted (Vermin, ..., Specter)

Cleric (Confessor, Curate, Prophet)

Witch (Naturalist, Ritualist, Spiritualist)





Weapons:
Concealable melee weapons:
Cane sword (Uncommon)
Hairpin (Common)
Dagger (Common)

Melee weapons:
Woodcutter's Axe (2h) (Common)
Longsword (2h) (Rare)
Rapier (1h) (Uncommon-Rare)
Saber (1h) (Uncommon)


Firearms:
Revolvers (Uncommon-Rare)
Single-shot rifles (Uncommon)
Lever-action rifles (Rare)
Bolt-action rifles (Very Rare)
Shotguns (Uncommon-Rare)


Armor:
Concealable armor:
Leather vest (Common)
Chain vest (Rare)
Traveller's coat (Common)

Regular armor:
Breastplate (Uncommon)



REFERENCES:
For currency info + goods costs: https://www.frontieramericanillustratednews.com/post/money-in-the-old-west-coins-of-america-s-dramatic-1840s-1870s