Item scarcity idea

The basic concept of this game is to somehow combine the soulslike genre with survival horror.
However, the respawning resources of the soulslike genre clashes with the concept of finite
resources that you usually find in survival horrors like Resident Evil.

The idea is to limit how much the player can bring with them per 'outing' (when leaving a safe  area/bonfire). This would NOT include 'gear' items (armour, weapons, talismans/rings - anything
that contributes to the character's core build). It would include things like consumables
and optional tools, like food/drink items for buffs, 'grenade' type weapons, simple tools
like a lightable/extinguishable lantern, or even weapon coatings (like grease/pine resin).

I was thinking of limiting the quantity of these items per 'outing' to a total of six, like
the inventory size of Signalis and the older Resident Evil games. Another aspect of this
would be that the optional items would be lost on death - creating some anxiety in the player
as whether or not they want to risk the resources they've brought with them. This system
also would seem to require a 'storage box' of some kind at a safe area/bonfire, so that players
can keep a stockpile of their favorite consumables/tools, as it is expected that they will
go through a fair number of them, and having to aquire each item every time they want to
use it will quickly become tedious and tiring.

Now, to balance out this extreme item limit (when compared to other soulslikes) each item
would have to be sufficiently useful/powerful, like buffs would likely have to last a fair
while, or grenade weapons would have to do either a lot of damage, or have a very large aoe.

Balancing the power of items in this system will be interesting (read: very difficult), but
I think it will create an interesting choice for the players, in deciding what they need
for a specific task, or whether they need to bring anything at all for something like a 'scouting
run'. It will also create the desire to avoid death, thus avoid loosing your favorite
consumables/tools, and feeding into the 'survival horror' aspect of this game (even if the 
horror is in loosing something valuable, as opposed to 'traditional' sources of horror).