Spell system based on/inspired by a standard Tarot deck


Minor Arcana:
Ace, Page, Knight, Queen & King to represent discreet, 'standard' spells.
Numbered cards (2-10) to be the 'resources' used to cast the spells, one
numbered card required per spell cast, can 'upcast' by spending an extra
numbered card (One resource spent to cast normally, two resources to upcast).
The 'spell' cards in the minor arcana are not spent after used, only the
'resource' card (in other words, you can recast the same spell as often
as you have the resources to spend).
You can only use resource cards from the same suit of cards that the spell
is from (in other words, you can only use wands resources to cast wands spells,
etc.)

The Fool:
Although technically part of the major arcana, The Fool can only be spent on upcasting
a minor arcana spell, and only one that is already being upcast normally (this is
intended to be a once off power up for a standard spell).

Swords to be melee attack spells (conjuring magical weapons to attack with)
Wands will be ranged attack spells 
Cups are to be healing & support spells
Coins should be control spells


Major Arcana:
Represents more 'unique' spells, and will operate as both spells and resources.
The card used as a spell is spent as well as those used as resources, and 
the cards that are used as resources will be chosen from the remaining cards.
Major arcana spells can be cast by spending the spell card plus two major arcana
cards as resources, or 'upcast' by spending the spell card plus five major arcana
cards (spending either three or six cards total).


A spellcaster can initially attune to a single suit (but not the major arcana).
The first major milestone for a tarot based spellcaster is the ability to attune to
two suites at the same time.
The biggest milestone for a tarot based spellcaster is the ability to attune to the
major arcana (the major arcana is considered to be a suit for the purposes of 
number of attunements)
Another option is to have the tarot based spellcaster attune to a small number (two to
four?) individual cards of their choosing at each level-up (or other significant milestone
in the progression system) in order to give them much greater control over what spell &
resource cards they have access to.


All spent cards (spells and resources) will be restored once a significant period of
rest is completed (no idea atm, spells are too powerful to have them restored after a
five minute break, but requiring anything more then a couple of days will leave a 
spellcaster without their primary kit/class abilities for most of the time, which is
boring and unfair - perhaps the spellcaster can restore one entire suit of their choice
per night's rest?).
A significant period of rest is considered to be the spellcaster taking the time to take
care of themselves, and assumes things like getting enough sleep for the body to perform
its natural repairs, taking care of personal hygiene or taking part in low-energy, non-strenuous
forms of relaxation (e.g. reading a book, having a quiet drink with a friend (but not having many
drinks with many friends!), writing a letter, meditating, etc.).



Swords:
Ace - Parry Riposte: Block the next melee attack against you and counterattack with a
thrust from a magical estoc.
Page - Two quick melee attacks: Two rapid, flowing slices from a magical sabre.
Knight - Dash followed by a melee attack: Dash forward suddenly and strike fiercely with a
magical longsword.
Queen - Melee attack with increased reach: A powerful thrusting attack with a magical rapier.
King - Melee AoE: A melee attack that hits everything in a wide arc, consisting of a broad, 
horizontal swing from a magical claymore.

Wands:
Ace - Quick/Accurate ranged attack: Quickly launch a magical arrow at your target.
Page - 
Knight - 
Queen - 
King - Large AoE attack: Summon at the target location a rain of razor sharp magical ice shards.

Cups:
Ace - 
Page - 
Knight - 
Queen - 
King - 

Coins:
Ace - 
Page - 
Knight - 
Queen - 
King - 

