Weapon system idea

The basic premise behind this idea is that I don't want a weapon based character to just use
the 'attack' option every time they want to use their weapon. I want them to use a specific
technique of their choice, from several options of techniques.

The most basic concept of this system would be choosing between a 'swing' or a 'thrust'. Where
a swing might do more damage overall, a thrust may provide additional armour penetration to
the attack, so you could vary how you attack an enemy based on the armour or percieved defenses.

Environment may play a role when deciding which attack to use. For example, in a small, tight
space you might not have the space required to reliably swing a weapon without hitting a wall or piece of furniture, and so a thrust may be a better option to attack reliably.

Different weapon types would have different attack options. For example, a mace might not
have a thrust option, but would perhaps have an 'overhead swing' and an 'upwards swing', in
addition to their regular swing attack. Whereas a longsword might have thrust, 'diagonal
cut', and 'vertical cut' attacks.



An alternate melee combat idea

The user can set which 'guard' or 'stance' they are in with their weapon, with each guard/stance
determining what attacks the user will perform in their attack chains. The general idea being
that you can change stances on the fly to change up your attack style, while not having to
select which attack to perform for every single attack action. The upside to this is that
a user only needs one button to perform their various attacks. The downside to this is that
attack chains become predictable, as they are a fixed chain, as opposed to making up your
own attack chain on the fly via choosing individual attacks - although this would only be
a real issue if player vs player was a part of this system. Using German longsword
fencing as a base, the basic guard would be Vom Tag, which is a basic moveset that hits a
little harder than other guards, but is also a bit slower with attack animations. The Ox guard
might have a quick horizontal swing for its third attack, Pflug might have a longer range
thrust attack than other thrusts, and Alber's attack chain might have a very slow second attack
that hits very hard. Each guard should also have varying stamina costs for the attacks in
their attack chains, specifically, the 'special' attack in each chain should be more costly
as it represents a the more powerful or unique attack option.


The player should start with a single guard, but be able to find Manuals to unlock other guards
as they progress.